# 677-Project

I. Introduction
 
A significant part of game-planning for American football teams is collecting, annotating, and analyzing game videos of their own and their opponents’ games [1]. The fruit of this labor is a more competitive game-plan to effectively increase the likelihood of a winning outcome. Currently, computer vision technologies are being leveraged to extract player information from videos of football plays [1]. Several companies offer web services for facilitating this video-based game planning. For example, Pro Football Focus provides exclusive data and analysis to assists agents and agencies in landing above market rate contracts in the NFL, and to grade and assess performance of players within play designs. Deep Football is another company that provides advanced statistics, interactive dashboards, and a data platform to support interested parties. However, significant human intervention is still needed for user interfacing, organization, annotation, and video sharing. With the advent of the neural network, specifically, Convolutional Neural Networks for Computer Vision, we would like to address  the question, “How can machine vision techniques improve  video-based game planning?”
This project is the first step to automating an essential aspect of American football strategic game planning: play formation recognition. A formation in football refers to the position players line up in before starting a down. There are both offensive and defensive formations and many formations in both categories. Sometimes, formations are referred to as packages. It is the goal of this project to reduce the labor-intensive identification of play- formation by automating play formation recognition. If we can reduce the number of "man-hours" used to collect & annotate game film, players, coaches, and analysts will have more time to focus on resulting analytical insights.   
